---
title: "Invoices"
linkTitle: "Invoices"
date: 2022-06-07
weight: 20
tags: ["parenttopic"]
---

The Invoices app allows you to manage payment for the materials that your library ordered. You can also search for and edit existing invoices as needed.

Definitions of terms used in the Invoices app:



*   **Accounting code.** The code used by your library in your payment system in reference to an organization.
*   **Acquisition unit.** An additional layer you can add to acquisitions records that restricts a user’s ability to interact with those records unless they have been assigned to that unit. Units are defined and determined by your library in the Settings app. See [Settings > Acquisition units]({{< ref "/settings_acquisition_units.md" >}}) for more information.
*   **Adjustments.** Charges added to an invoice in addition to the materials ordered. Shipping costs and exchange rates represent common adjustments.
*   **Batch group.** Groups that process their invoices together. Invoices from the same library are generally processed together.
*   **Funds.** Specific allocations of money within a ledger.
*   **Invoice lines.** The individual line items being paid for within each invoice. Each line consists of a description of the materials being paid for, the costs incurred, and a vendor reference number. Invoices are primarily a sum of the information from these lines.
*   **Organizations.** Any institution with which your library interacts.  An organization may or may not be an institution from which you purchase materials.
*   **Vendor.** Any institution from which your library purchases materials.
*   **Vendor invoice number.** The number provided by the vendor for this invoice.
*   **Voucher number.** A number generated by the system to identify the payment request exported from FOLIO to an external financial system.


## Permissions

The permissions listed below allow you to interact with the Invoices app and determine what you can and cannot do within the app. You can assign permissions to users in the Users app. If none of these permissions are assigned to a user, they are unable to see the Invoices app or any related information.

The following are all the Invoices permissions:



*   **Invoice: Approve invoices.** This permission allows the user to approve invoices.
*   **Invoice: Assign acquisition units to new record.** This permission allows the user to assign acquisition units to new invoices.
*   **Invoice: Can view and edit invoices and invoice lines.**  This permission allows the user to view and edit invoices and invoice lines.
*   **Invoice: Can view invoices and invoice lines.**  This permission allows the user to view invoices and invoice lines.
*   **Invoice: Can view, edit and create new invoices and invoice lines.**  This permission allows the user to view, edit, and create new invoices and invoice lines.
*   **Invoice: Can view, edit and delete invoices and invoice lines.**  This permission allows the user to view, edit, and delete invoices and invoice lines.
*   **Invoice: Cancel invoice.** This permission allows users to cancel invoices.
*   **Invoice: Download batch file from invoice record.** This permission allows users to download the batch file from the invoice record.
*   **Invoice: Manage acquisition units.** This permission allows the user to change the assignment of acquisition units for an invoice.
*   **Invoice: Pay Invoices.** This permission allows the user to approve invoices for payment.


## Keyboard shortcuts
Keyboard shortcuts allow you to perform actions using the keyboard in this app.  See [Platform essentials > Keyboard shortcuts]({{< ref "keyboardshortcuts.md" >}}) for more information.
 
 
## Creating an invoice

Invoices contain a list of the payments due for materials ordered by your library from vendors.



1. In the **Invoices** pane, click **New.**
2. In the **Create vendor invoice** window, fill in the Invoice information, Adjustments, Vendor information, Extended information, and Links & documents sections. For more information on the fields and actions available in these sections, see the section descriptions below.
3. Once you have included all of the information you want about the invoice, click **Save & close.**  Note: If the user has entered an invoice number for a vendor that matches an already existing invoice number with the same invoice date, a popup window will appear with the message, "This appears to be a duplicate invoice number."  Click **Submit** to continue to create the invoice or **Cancel** to return to the Create invoice pane. 
4. The invoice is saved and added to the Invoices pane.


### Invoice information

This section contains invoice header information. Invoice date, Status, and Batch group are the only required fields in this section.



*   **Invoice date (required).** The vendor invoice date.
*   **Status (required).** The status of the invoice.  The default status for a new invoice is “Open.”  “Reviewed” is also available in the drop down list.
*   **Payment due.** The date when invoice payment is due.
*   **Terms.** The additional terms associated with the invoice, such as business or contractual terms.
*   **Approval date.** The date a user approved the invoice to move forward. This date will be generated by the system after the invoice is created and approved.
*   **Approved by.** The user who approved the invoice. The user name will display after the invoice is created and approved.
*   **Acquisition units.** The acquisition units assigned to the invoice. For more information see Settings > Acquisition units.
*   **Bill to.** In the **Bill to** drop-down list, select the billing address for the invoice. Once you select an address, the billing address appears under **Address**. Addresses are configured in the Settings app. For more information, see [Settings > Tenant > Addresses](../../settings/settings_tenant/settings_tenant/#addresses).
*   **Batch group (required).** The batch group with which the invoice will be grouped. For more information, see Settings > Invoices > Batch group configuration.
*   **Sub-total.** The sub-total of the invoice calculated as the sum of the sub-total values of all invoice lines. The system will generate this amount after the invoice is created.
*   **Total adjustments.** The total adjustments to the invoice calculated as the sum of all adjustments on the invoice header and all invoice lines. The system will generate this amount after the invoice is created.
*   **Calculated total amount.** The total amount of the invoice calculated as the sum of the **Sub-total** value and the **Total adjustments** value. The system will generate this amount after the invoice is created.
*   **Lock total** Check this box to indicate that you want to enter a total amount.  Leave this box unchecked if you want the system to calculate the total amount based on the invoice line amounts.  
*   **Lock total amount.** The total expenditure for the invoice.  This field is editable only if the **Lock total** checkbox is checked. If you enter a lock total amount, all invoice lines and adjustment values must equal this lock total amount before a user can approve the invoice.  
*   **Note.** Any additional comments relevant to the invoice.


### Adjustments

Adjustments are optional and define costs attached to an invoice beyond the items ordered. Shipping rates and exchange rates represent two common adjustments. You can either select one or more preset adjustment from the drop-down menu or create a new one.

To create preset adjustments, see [Settings > Invoices > Adjustments](../../settings/settings_invoices/settings_invoices/#settings--invoices--adjustments) for more information.


#### Selecting a preset adjustment

Select a preset adjustment from the drop down list and click **Add adjustment.** 


*   **Description (required).** Describes the adjustment.
*   **Amount (required).** The amount of the adjustment.
*   **Type.** Select a currency or a percentage. Note: This choice applies to the amount you entered in **Amount.**
*   **Pro rate (required).** Select the method by which the adjustment should be proportionally distributed: **By line**, **By amount**, **By quantity**, or **Not prorated**.  **By line** will distribute the adjustment equally across all lines regardless of the quantity on each line; **By amount** will distribute the adjustment across all line proportionally based on each line amount; **By quantity** will distribute based on quantity.  For example, if there are two invoice lines and the first has a quantity of “1” and the second line has a quantity of “2”, a **By quantity** adjustment of $3.00 will apply $1.00 to line one and $2.00 to line two.  **Not Prorated** will apply the adjustment at the invoice level rather than to each line.  If this option is selected, an “Add fund distribution” button will appear.  Click “Add fund distribution” to define the fund to which this adjustment should be applied.
*   **Relation to total (required).** Defines how this adjustment should be applied in relation to the invoice total. Select one: In addition to, Included in, or Separate from.  Note: Adjustments that are created with a **Relation to total** value of **Separate from** are not included in the **Total adjustments** amount or **Calculated total amount** for the invoice.
*   **Export to accounting.** Select this checkbox to send the adjustment detail in the voucher export to your external payment system for this invoice.

#### Creating an adjustment

If creating a new adjustment that doesn’t exist as a preset adjustment, click **Add adjustment.** Enter the adjustment details in the fields described above in  **Selecting a preset adjustment.**



### Vendor information

The vendor information section is required.

1. Enter the **Vendor invoice number** provided to you by the vendor.
2. To select the vendor, click **Organization look-up**. In the **Select Organization** dialog, find the organization record for the vendor using the search box and/or filters. Click the organization to select it.  Note: The organization selected for payment on an invoice must be a vendor.  The system will allow you to select a non-vendor organization, but you will be prevented from Approving an invoice associated with a non-vendor organization.  See [Invoices > Creating a vendor](.../.../invoices/#creating-a-vendor) for more information.
3. The vendor’s Accounting code from their Organization record summary section will display automatically once you select the vendor and save the invoice. If the vendor has multiple accounts with different accounting codes, select the appropriate accounting code  from the drop-down list. For more information about Organization accounting codes, see [Organizations > Creating an Organization](../organizations/#creating-an-organization).


### Extended information



1. Select a **Payment method** from the drop-down menu: Cash, Credit card, EFT, Deposit account, Physical check, Bank draft, Internal transfer, or Other.
2. If you want to check for existing subscriptions, select the **Check subscription overlap** checkbox. Note: System logic is not currently implemented, so the system doesn't check for overlapping subscriptions.
3. If you want to send a voucher to an external financial system, click the **Export to accounting** checkbox.  The setting of the **Export to accounting** checkbox on the vendor’s Organization record determines the default value setting of this checkbox on invoices for the vendor.  Note:  If this checkbox is set to true, then the **Accounting code** in the Vendor information section is a required field.
4. If you want to indicate to an external accounting system that an enclosure is needed with this invoice, click the **Enclosure needed** checkbox.  If the Export to accounting checkbox is set to true and a voucher is created for this invoice, the export voucher file will contain a value of true in the **Enclosure needed** data element.
4. Select a **Currency** from the drop-down list. The default value is stored in Tenant settings as the primary currency. For more information, see [Settings > Tenant > Language and localization](../../settings/settings_tenant/setting_tenant/#language-and-localization). If you select a currency other than the default, the system will display the **Current exchange rate**.
5. If you want to enter an exchange rate value to override the **Current exchange rate** value, select the **Use set exchange rate** checkbox and enter the rate in the **Set exchange rate box**.


### Links and documents

This section allows you to attach documents to an invoice record, such as digitized physical invoices or emails from vendors. You can either upload files directly or add URL links to files stored in an external file management system. You can also attach documents to accompany an invoice, such as pictures of physical invoices or emails from a vendor.


#### Add a link

1. Click **Add link**.

2. Enter a **Link name** to identify the file link.

3. Optional: Enter an **External URL** for an active website.

If you want to delete a link, click the **delete icon**.


#### Add a document

There are two ways to add a document:



*   Drag and drop a file into the box provided, or
*   Click **Choose file** to add a document from your local files.

If you want to delete a document, click the **delete icon.**

This is the end of the **Create new invoice** screen.  Click **Save & close** to save the invoice.  


You must **add or create new invoice lines** before the invoice can be approved or paid.  
*   To link an existing open order purchase order line to the invoice, follow the steps to [add an invoice line to an invoice](#adding-an-invoice-line-to-an-invoice).  Information from the purchase order line populates fields on the invoice line, such as Subscription start date, Subscription end date, and quantity. The account number and accounting code are derived from the vendor’s organization record account section. See [Organizations > Accounts](../organizations/#accounts) for more information about vendor accounts.
*   To create a new invoice line that is not associated with a purchase order, follow the steps to [create a new invoice line](#creating-a-new-invoice-line),

## Adding an invoice line to an invoice



1. Click **Add.**
2. In the **Select order lines** window, in the **Search & filter** box, enter keywords to search for the purchase order line (POL).
3. Optional: Filter results.
4. Click **Search**. Search results appear in the Search results pane.
5. To select one or more order lines, select the checkboxes to the left of the POL number.
6. Click **Save**. 
The order lines appear in the Invoice lines table.  To view an invoice line, click on a row in the Invoice lines table.  See [Viewing invoice lines](#viewing-invoice-lines) for more information.  If you select a purchase order line that contains a vendor that doesn’t match the organization for the invoice, a Confirmation dialog appears. Click **Confirm** to continue with the purchase order line selection or **Cancel** to choose a different purchase order line.

If the selected purchase order line has a payment status of **Fully paid**, a red banner will display at the top of the invoice header and a red exclamation mark icon will display beside the relevant invoice line to alert you that the purchase order selected is already fully paid.



## Creating a new invoice line

To create an invoice line that is not associated with an existing purchase order line, follow these steps:



1. Click **New.**
2. In the **Create vendor invoice line** window, fill in the Invoice information, Fund distribution, and Adjustments sections. For more information on the fields and actions available in these sections, see the section descriptions below.
3. Click **Save & close**. A confirmation message appears and the invoice line appears in the Invoice lines table.


## Linking an invoice line to a purchase order line

When vendor EDIFACT format invoices are loaded to the system through data import, invoice lines are created based on information provided from the vendor.  The system may be unable to  automatically match some invoice lines to an existing purchase order line.  To manually link an invoice line to a purchase order line, follow these steps:


1. From the vendor invoice pane, review the Invoice lines accordion to determine whether the system has automatically created a purchase order link.  A successfully linked invoice line contains a **POL number** value in the Invoice line table list.  If the **POL number** is blank, the system was unable to match to an existing purchase order.
2. To manually link the invoice line, click on the link icon to invoke a POL lookup.
3.  The **Select order lines** window opens. In the **Search & filter** box, enter keywords to search for the purchase order line (POL).
4. Optional: Filter results.
5. Click **Search**. Search results appear in the Search results pane.
6. Click on the one order you want to link to the invoice line. The **POL number** value is populated and the link is created.



### Invoice line information



*   **Description.** The description or title for the invoice line. This may contain the materials, service, or fee being invoiced.
*   **Invoice line number.** The invoice line number for the invoice line which will be created after you save this new invoice line.
*   **Status.** The status of the invoice line: Open, Reviewed, Approved, Paid, cancelled.
*   **Vendor reference numbers.** Click **Add reference number** to add vendor reference numbers for the invoice line. For more information about vendor reference numbers, see [Orders > Adding an order line to an order > Vendor ref number]({{< ref "/orders.md#vendor-1" >}}).
*   **Vendor reference type**  A type to define the vendor reference number.  Vendor continuation reference number, Vendor internal number, Vendor order reference number, Vendor subscription reference number, or Vendor title number.
*   **Subscription info.** Subscription information for this invoice line, such as which volumes are being invoiced.
*   **Subscription start date.** The date the subscription starts.  
*   **Subscription end date.** The date the subscription ends.
*   **Comment.** Any additional comments for the invoice line.
*   **Accounting code.** The accounting code for the invoice line. If you select an account number from the drop-down list, the associated accounting code will display here. Note: If the **Export to accounting** checkbox is active, the **Accounting code** is required.
*   **Account number.** The account number for the invoice line. This drop-down list contains vendor account numbers for the vendor selected on the invoice if any exist on the vendor’s Organization record. If one or more vendor accounts exist in the Organization record for the vendor, the first account appears in this field as the default value.
*   **Quantity.** The number of items in the invoice line.
*   **Sub-total.** The amount of this invoice line. Note: The subtotal amount must be distributed to one or more funds and is expressed in the currency defined in [Settings > Tenant > Language and localization](../../settings/settings_tenant/settings_tenant/#language-and-localization).
*   **Release encumbrance.** Check this box to release the remaining value of the related encumbrance(s) from the fund to which it was assigned when the invoice transitions to **Approved** status. If this box is unchecked, any related encumbrance value that remains will persist after the invoice is **Approved** and the order payment status of any related Purchase Order Lines (POL) will not transition to **Fully Paid** until the encumbrances are released.  For example, if the POL cost was $50, but the invoice amount is $40 and **Release encumbrance** is unchecked, the $10 difference will persist as an encumbrance on the fund indicated in the fund distribution.



### Fund distribution


The **Remaining amount to be distributed** is calculated based on the **Sub-total** value entered above.  

1. Click **Add fund distribution**
2. Add fund information in the fields described below.  You can add multiple fund distributions.  To remove a fund distribution click the trash can icon beside the relevant line.

*   **Adjustment.** The adjustments that apply to the funds for the invoice.
*   **Fund ID.** The fund to which you are distributing the amount.  Note: The use of acquisitions units may restrict which funds appear in this list. If an acquisition unit is set up to restrict view permissions, then only funds that are assigned to the same acquisition unit as the user will display in the drop-down list.  For more information, see [Settings > Acquisition units](../../settings/settings_acquisition_units/settings_acquisition_units/).
*   **Expense class.** The expense class within the fund, to which you are distributing the amount. This field will only display if the selected Fund ID has any associated Expense classes.
*   **Value.** The monetary value to apply to the fund, expressed as a percentage or currency value.
*   **Type.**  Select whether the **Value** should be expressed as a percentage or currency value.
*   **Amount.** The amount of money committed to the fund.


### Adjustments

To use a preset adjustment, select from the **Preset adjustment** dropdown list. Preset adjustments are created in [Settings > Invoices > Adjustments](../../settings/settings_invoices/settings_invoices/#settings--invoices--adjustments). If a new adjustment is needed that doesn’t exist as a preset, click **Add adjustment.**  

*   **Description.** A description of the adjustment.
*   **Amount.** The cost of the adjustment.
*   **Pro rate.** Determine whether the value of the adjustment is distributed across multiple invoice lines.
*   **Relation to total.** Specifies whether the adjustment is included in, in addition to, or separate from the total amount of the invoice. Note: Adjustments that are created with a **Relation to total** value of **Separate from** are not included in the **Total adjustments** amount or **Calculated total amount** for the invoice.



Click **Save & Close** to save the new invoice line and return to the detail pane view of the invoice. The new invoice line now appears in the **Invoice lines** accordion of the invoice record. 

## Searching for an invoice

You can search for invoices in the **Search & filter** pane. To search for invoices, enter your search terms into the box. Select the **All** drop-down list to search through one of the following fields:



*   **All.** Searches through all fields in the drop-down list. This is the default search.
*   **Voucher number.** The voucher number for the invoice.
*   **Vendor Invoice Number.** The vendor invoice number for the invoice.
*   **Accounting Code.** The accounting code for the invoice.

You can also search for invoices by selecting any of the filters in the **Search & filter** pane. Additionally, you can apply the filters after you perform a search to limit your results. See the sections below for more information on the filters.


### Status

In the **Search & filter** pane, click **Status** and select any applicable filters:



*   **Open.** Invoices currently open for your library.  This is the default status for new invoices.
*   **Reviewed.** Invoices that have been reviewed by your library.   To set an invoice as “Reviewed”, you can select the “Reviewed” status from the drop-down list on the “Create vendor invoice” screen or the “Edit vendor invoice” screen.
*   **Approved.** Invoices that have been approved by your library.  Use the Action menu to Approve an invoice.
*   **Paid.** Invoices that have been paid for by your library.  Use the Action menu to Pay an invoice.
*   **Cancelled.** Invoices that have been cancelled by your library.  

### Vendor name

To search for invoices placed with a specific vendor, follow these steps:



1. In the **Search & filter pane**, click **Vendor name.**
2. Click **Organization** look-up.
3. In the **Select Organization** dialog, search for the vendor.
4. Click the vendor to populate the **Vendor name** field. The search results appear in the Invoices pane.  

For information on searching for organizations, see [Organizations > Searching for an organization]({{< ref "/organizations.md#searching-for-an-organization" >}}).


### Date created

To search for invoices based on the date they were created, follow these steps:



1. In the **Search & filter** pane, click **Date created.**
2. Enter a start date in the **From** box and an end date in the **To** box.
3. Click **Apply**. The search results appear in the Invoices pane.  


### Invoice date

To search for invoices based on their invoice date, follow these steps:



1. In the **Search & filter** pane, click **Invoice date.**
2. Enter a start date in the **From** box and an end date in the **To** box.
3. Click **Apply**. The search results appear in the Invoices pane.  


### Acquisition unit

To search for invoices assigned to a specific acquisition unit, follow these steps:



1. In the **Search & filter** pane, click **Acquisition unit.**
2. Select the acquisition unit you want from the drop-down list. The search results appear in the Invoices pane.  

### Tags

To search for invoices assigned with specific tags, follow these steps:



1. In the **Search & filter** pane, click **Tags**.
2. Select the tag(s) from the drop-down list. The search results appear in the Invoices pane.  


### Payment due

To search for invoices by payment due date, follow these steps:



1. In the **Search & filter** pane, click **Payment due.**
2. Enter a start date in the **From** box and an end date in the **To** box.
3. Click **Apply**. The search results appear in the Invoices pane.  


### Payment method

In the **Search & filter** pane, click **Payment method** and select any applicable filters:



*   **Cash.** Invoices paid by cash.
*   **Credit Card.** Invoices paid by credit card.
*   **EFT.** Invoices paid by electronic funds transfer.
*   **Deposit account.** Invoices paid by direct deposit.
*   **Physical check.** Invoices paid by physical check.
*   **Bank draft.** Invoices paid by bank draft.
*   **Internal transfer.** Invoices paid by internal transfer.
*   **Other.** Invoices paid with a different method than those listed above.


### Approval date

To search for invoices by approval date, follow these steps:



1. Enter a start date in the **From** box and an end date in the **To** box.
2. Click **Apply**. The search results appear in the Invoices pane.  


### Source

To filter for invoices by their source, select one or more of the following:



*   **User.** Invoices created by a FOLIO user.  
*   **API.** Invoices created through an Application Programming Interface.
*   **EDI.** Invoices created through Electronic Data Interchange.
*   **MARC.** Invoices imported through MAchine-Readable Cataloging format record import.


### Export to accounting

To filter for invoices based on the **Export to accounting** checkbox, select:



*   **Yes.** Invoices that have the **Export to accounting** checkbox selected.
*   **No.** Invoices that do not have the **Export to accounting** checkbox selected.


### Payment date 

To search for invoices by payment date, follow these steps:



1. Enter a start date in the **From** box and an end date in the **To** box.
2. Click **Apply**. The search results appear in the Invoices pane.  


### Batch group

To search for invoices by batch group assignment, follow these steps:



1. In the **Search & filter** pane, click **Batch group**.
2. Select the batch group name from the drop-down list. The search results appear in the Invoices pane.  



## Viewing invoice details

Once you search for an invoice, the following information appears in the Invoices search results pane:



*   **Vendor invoice number.** The number provided by the vendor for this invoice.
*   **Vendor.** The vendor name.
*   **Invoice date.** The vendor invoice date.
*   **Status.** The status of the invoice: Open, Reviewed, Approved, Paid, cancelled.
*   **Total amount (system).** The combined cost of the items ordered and adjustments for the invoice.

In the search results, click on an invoice to view more information. The **Vendor invoice number** pane displays with additional information about the invoice.


### Viewing invoice information

For information about most of the fields in the Invoice information section, see [Creating an invoice > Invoice information](#invoice-information). Once an invoice line is created,  the following fields are populated by the system and are included in the Invoice information section:



*   **Source.** The method by which this invoice was created: User, API, EDI, or MARC.
*   **Total units.** The total units for the invoice calculated as the sum of the quantity values on all invoice lines.
*   **Payment date.**  The date on which the invoice status transitioned to **Paid.**


### Viewing invoice lines

Invoice lines link an invoice to purchase order lines or are invoice lines that are not associated with an existing order. Each line consists of the title, payment information, cost details, and adjustments.

The invoice lines section lists all invoice lines for the order. The invoice lines table list displays the following:



*   **#**  The purchase order line (POL) number.  System generated. 
*   **POL number.** The purchase order line number.
*   **Description.** The ordered title from the purchase order line.
*   **Fund code.** The code for the fund from which payment is made for the invoice line.
*   **PO status.** The purchase order workflow status from the purchase order line: Open, Pending, Closed.
*   **Receipt status.** The receipt status of the purchase order line.
*   **Payment status.**  The payment status of the purchase order line.
*   **Vendor reference number.** A unique identifier for the material being acquired that is specific to the vendor. Different types of identifiers are provided by vendors for different types of material.  All associated vendor reference numbers are listed.
*   **Quantity.** The quantity ordered.
*   **Sub-total.** The priceof the invoice before adding adjustments.
*   **Adjustments.** The adjustments associated with the invoice.
*   **Total.** The total amount of the invoice line calculated as the **Sub-total** plus **Adjustments**.
*   **Vendor code.** The vendor code for the vendor organization associated with the purchase order line.


To view more information about the invoice line, click on the row in the invoice lines list.  A detail pane opens containing information about the invoice line. See [Creating a new invoice line](#creating-a-new-invoice-line) for descriptions of the fields in the invoice line detail pane.


#### Viewing other related invoice lines

The **View invoice line** detail pane includes an accordion section to list **Other related invoice lines**. This table lists any invoices that are related to the same purchase order line.  


### Fund distribution




The Fund distribution section of the invoice detail remains empty unless the invoice contains an adjustment that is not prorated and for which a fund distribution has been selected. For more information, see [Creating an invoice > Adjustments > Adding a preset adjustment](#adding-a-preset-adjustment). The fund distribution section lists the following information:



*   **Adjustment.** Description of the adjustment.
*   **Fund.** The fund to which you are distributing the amount elephant
*   **Expense class.** The expense class within the fund, to which you are distributing the amount. This field will only display information if the selected Fund ID has any associated Expense classes.
*   **Value.** The monetary value to apply to the fund, expressed as a percentage or currency value.
*   **Amount.** The amount of money committed to the fund.
*   **Initial encumbrance.**  The initial amount committed to the fund.
*   **Current encumbrance.** The current amount committed to the fund.  When an invoice transitions to **Approved** status and the **Release encumbrances** checkbox on an invoice line is checked, the **Current encumbrance** value becomes zero.



### Adjustments




The Adjustment section of the invoice detail remains empty unless the invoice contains an adjustment that is not prorated. Adjustments with a **Pro rate** method of **By amount,** **By line,** or **By quantity**  display the adjustment information on the invoice line.  For more information, see [Creating an invoice > Adjustments > Adding a preset adjustment](#adding-a-preset-adjustment). The Adjustment section lists the following information:



*   **Description.**  A description of the adjustment.
*   **Amount.**  The cost of the adjustment.
*   **Pro rate.**  The method by which the adjustment should be proportionally distributed: **By line**, **By amount**, **By quantity**, or **Not prorated**
*   **Relation to total.**  Defines how the adjustment is applied in relation to the invoice total: **In addition to**, **Included in**, or **Separate from.**





### Vendor details



*   **Vendor invoice number.** The vendor invoice number for the invoice.
*   **Vendor name.** The name of the vendor.
*   **Accounting code.** The accounting code for the invoice.
*   **Address, Primary.**  The vendor’s primary address information.  This address is included on the invoice voucher and voucher export.


### Links and documents

This area includes all the links and documents attached to the invoice. Click the **External URL** or **Document name** to open the documents.


## Editing an invoice



1. Find the invoice you want to edit and select it.
2. Click **Actions** > **Edit**.
3. Edit the invoice.  Not all fields are editable.  The **Status** field is editable so that you can optionally set an invoice as “Reviewed”  by selecting the “Reviewed” status from the drop-down list. 
4. Click **Save & close.** A confirmation message appears and the invoice is updated.





## Deleting an invoice

Deleting an invoice is possible while in an Open, Reviewed, or Cancelled status.  Once an invoice has transitioned to Approved or Paid, it cannot be deleted.

1. Find the invoice you want to delete and select it.
2. In the **Vendor invoice number** pane, click **Actions** > **Delete**.
3. In the Delete invoice dialog, click **Delete**. A confirmation message appears and the invoice is deleted.


## Approving an invoice


Invoices require approval before the payment amounts are considered to be awaiting payment and in order for vouchers to be created. Approving an invoice is possible when:
*   The invoice status is Open or Reviewed. 
*   One or more invoice lines are added to the invoice.. 
*   The user account includes the **Approve invoice** permission.
*   If you enter a **Lock total** value, all invoice lines and adjustment values must equal this lock total amount.  See [Invoice information > Lock total](#invoice-information) for information about lock total. 


Approving an invoice triggers the following system actions:
*   Once one or more invoices connected to a purchase order line have been “Approved,” the purchase order **Payment status** is changed to “Partially paid.”  
*   Voucher and pending payment transactions are created. Vouchers are a mechanism for providing the information necessary to make invoice payments and can be exported to an external payment system. Each invoice generates a single unique voucher on which all fund charges are grouped by the fund external account number.  For more information on exporting vouchers, see
 [Settings > Invoices > Batch group configuration](../../settings/settings_invoices/settings_invoices/#settings--invoices--batch-group-configuration).


To approve an invoice, follow these steps:



1. Find the invoice you want to approve and select it.
2. In the **Vendor invoice number** pane, click **Actions** > **Approve.**
3. In the **Approve invoice** dialog, click **Approve**. A confirmation message appears and the invoice is approved.



## Viewing a voucher


Once an invoice is approved, an invoice voucher is created and is added to the invoice record.  To view an invoice voucher, follow these steps:



1. Using the Search and Filter pane, find the invoice you want to view and select it.
2. In the **Vendor invoice number** pane, scroll down to the **Voucher information** section.  Key information about the invoice payment voucher is displayed in this section.
3. To view all voucher information on a full screen window, click “View voucher.”  


 
 ### Voucher information

*   **Status.** The status of the invoice voucher: Awaiting Payment or Paid.
*   **Voucher number.**  System-assigned number for this voucher.
*   **Voucher date.** Date the invoice was approved and the voucher was created.
*   **Total.** Total amount of all voucher lines.
*   **Exchange rate.** Currency exchange rate used to generate the transaction.
*   **Disbursement number.**  The identifier from an external system corresponding to a payment.
*   **Account number.** The number of the vendor organization account for the payment method indicated on the invoice.  This value is only populated if the organization record for the vendor contains an account number in the Accounts section for the payment method being used for this invoice.
*   **Accounting code.**  Vendor accounting code to identify the vendor organization in an external accounts payable system.
*   **Enclosure needed.**  If true and payment method is “Check,” this indicates to an external accounting system that an enclosure is needed with this invoice. If the Export to accounting checkbox is set to true and a voucher is created for this invoice, the export voucher file will contain a value of true in the enclosure needed data element.
*   **Vendor.** Vendor name.
*   **Address 1.** Vendor address 1. This is the vendor’s primary address from the Organization app.  See [Organizations> Adding an address](../organizations/#adding-an-address) for more information.
*   **Address 2.** Vendor address 2.
*   **City.** Vendor city.
*   **State/Prov./Region.** Vendor State, Province, or Region code.
*   **Zip code.** Vendor zip code.
*   **Country.** Vendor country.



### Voucher lines



The voucher lines are grouped by fund external account number.  For example, if there are multiple invoice lines on an invoice that contain the same fund external account number, only one voucher line will be generated containing the total amount across those invoice lines.



*   **External account number.**  The fund’s external account number.
*   **Total.** The total amount for all voucher lines, displayed at the bottom of the voucher line table.


The Voucher lines table contains this information for each voucher line:


*   **Line number.**
*   **Group.**
*   **Fund code.**
*   **External account number.**
*   **Amount.**



## Printing a voucher

To print an invoice voucher, follow these steps:



1. Follow the instructions in [Viewing a voucher](#viewing-a-voucher) to find the voucher you want to print.

2. In the Voucher invoice full screen display, select **Actions** > **Print**. 

3. The print preview dialog box opens. For descriptions of each field included in the voucher print view, see [Voucher information](#voucher-information).

4. Click on the **Destination** drop-down to select whether to print the voucher or save to a PDF file.   

5. Click **Save** or **Print** as indicated by your destination selection.



## Paying an invoice



Use the **Pay** action to update the invoice to the status of Paid. The **Pay** action is available in the Action menu if the [Settings > Invoices > Approvals](../../settings/settings_invoices/settings_invoices/#settings--invoices--approvals) **Approve and pay in one click** setting is turned off.  This enables a library to use separate actions to **Approve** invoices and **Pay** invoices.  If that setting is off, the invoice must be approved before the **Pay** action will be available.  

Moving the invoice to paid status will trigger an update of the purchase order status to **Closed** once the order is fully received. See [Settings > Invoices > Approvals](../../settings/settings_invoices/settings_invoices/#settings--invoices--approvals) for more information about the “Approve and pay in one click” setting.  



To pay an invoice, follow these steps:



1. Using the Search and Filter pane, find the approved invoice that you want to pay and select it.
2.  In the Voucher invoice number pane, select **Actions** > **Pay.**
3. Click **Submit**.



## Viewing voucher export details and downloading the export file



The process to generate a batch file containing vouchers for export to an external accounts payable system is managed in [Settings > Invoices > Batch group configuration](../../settings/settings_invoices/settings_invoices/#settings--invoices--batch-group-configuration).  Only vouchers for invoices with the **Export to accounting** checkbox turned on with an invoice status of “Approved” that have not been extracted in a prior job run will be included in the export.  After the export job completes, you can view details about the export and view a copy of the full voucher export file by finding an invoice that was included in the export job.   To view voucher export details and download a copy of the full file to your local download folder, follow these steps:



1. Using the Search and Filter pane, find the invoice you want to view and select it.
2. In the **Vendor invoice number** pane, scroll down to the **Voucher export details** section.  
3. To download the full voucher export file, click the downward arrow download icon next to the Batch file name.  This file will contain all vouchers that were in a Paid status that had not yet been exported at the time of job execution.


## Cancelling an invoice
Cancelling an invoice is possible while in an Approved or Paid status and when the user account includes the **Approve invoice** permission. Cancelling an invoice triggers the following system actions:
*   All transactions against funds related to the invoice are voided.
*   The invoice voucher status is set to **Cancelled**.
*   Users are unable to Open, Approve, or Pay the invoice after cancelling.
To cancel an invoice, follow these steps:
1. Find the invoice you want to cancel and select it.
2. In the **Vendor invoice number** pane, click **Actions** > **Cancel**.
3. In the **Cancel invoice** dialog, optionally enter a **Cancellation note**.  The Cancellation note displays in the **Invoice information** accordion.
 
### Voucher export details



*   **Batch group.**  The name of the batch group selected for the invoice.
*   **Batch file name.**  The name of the file generated by the voucher export process, expressed as date-time.
*   **Batch file status.**  The status of the voucher export batch file: **Uploaded** or **Error**.



### Voucher export file



The voucher export file contains the following data elements: 

*   accountingCode
*   accountNo
*   amount
*   batchedVoucherLines/0/amount
*   batchedVoucherLines/0/fundCodes/
*   batchedVoucherLines/0/externalAccountNumber
*   enclosureNeeded
*   exchangeRate
*   folioInvoiceNo
*   invoiceCurrency
*   invoiceDate
*   invoiceTerms
*   status
*   systemCurrency
*   type
*   vendorInvoiceNo
*   vendorName
*   voucherDate
*   voucherNumber
*   vendorAddress/addressLine1
*   vendorAddress/addressLine2
*   vendorAddress/city
*   vendorAddress/stateRegion
*   vendorAddress/zipCode
*   vendorAddress/country


## Edit a voucher to add disbursement information



To add information about the invoice voucher disbursement from an external accounts payable system, use the Action menu to edit the invoice voucher. 




1. Using the Search and Filter pane, find the invoice for which you want to update disbursement information and select it.
2. Scroll down to the Voucher information section and click the **View voucher** button
2. From the View voucher full-screen window, open the Action menu and select **Edit**.
2. Enter the disbursement information in the fields described below.
4. Click **Save and close.**  



The only fields that are editable on the voucher are:



*   **Disbursement number.** Enter an identifier from an external system corresponding to a payment, such as a check number.
*   **Disbursement date.**  Enter the date of the disbursement transaction in the external system.
*   **Disbursement amount.**  Enter the amount of the disbursement, with or without decimal.
